# Scaling tests with the graphene + proton example

## Getting started

I have written a script that generates an input file for an SCF calculation of the ground state of a tiling of the graphene lattice.
You can run this script as follows:

python3 generate_graphene_proton_supercell.py 2 2

This will generate the 2x2 supercell that you've been studying in the file graphene_proton_2x2-scf.in.
By substituting the two arguments (here, 2 and 2) you can change the shape of the tiling.
E.g., 4 3 would tile the cell 4 times along the first lattice vector and 3 times along the second lattice vector.
The total number of atoms will be 1 (proton) plus 2 times the product of the two arguments.
E.g., 2 2 will give you 1 + (2 atoms)*(2 cells in direction A)*(2 cells in direction B).

To run the 2x2 calculation in parallel, you will enter the command

mpiexec -n <# of tasks> -nb NB <path to pw.x>/pw.x -i graphene_proton_2x2-scf.in

where NB is an integer that you will specify that is a factor of both the number of tasks and the number of bands.

So, say that you run this on one node of Manzano.
Each node has 48 cores and it is natural to then divide the calculation into 48 tasks.
The division into communicators is such that NB specifies the distribution over bands.
For the 2x2 tiling, we're specifying the number of bands as 32.
So you could imagine running with NB=1, 2, 4, 8, and 16.
You might get funny behavior if you specify 48 tasks and NB=32, though this would be reasonable division of work.
This is because 32 isn't a factor of 48, even though it is a factor of 32.
Give it a try, Espresso should be smart enough to divide up the calculation but TDDFT (the next step) might not be.

Once you've run an SCF calculation, you can do TDDFT using the wave function generated by the SCF calculation as an initial condition.
So next you'll run a TDDFT calculation using (you guessed it) the TDDFT code.

mpiexec -n <# of tasks> -nb NB <path to tddft.x>/tddft.x -i graphene_proton_2x2-tddft.in

Note that the TDDFT code is set up to read the results of the SCF calculation
specified in the prefix argument of the TDDFT control block in the input file.
Also note that you can change the electron and ion time steps from their default value and
this will change the time per step / the overall execution time.

One thing to note is that once you get to a large enough cell, the TDDFT
calculation will be more parallel than the SCF calculation.
That is, eventually you won't be able to throw a larger computer at the SCF calculation to get it to finish faster,
but you'll be able to do so with the TDDF±T calculation.
Ideally, we will be able to identify where that crossover point is on the machines that you have access to presently.

## To do list

I recommend starting small with the 2x2 tiling that you already know, just to get a sense for things.
You can also vary around the cutoffs to see how things change with parallelism, too.
By default, the distribution of the computation is simply between bands and plane wave coefficients.
Say you have 32 tasks and 32 bands.
If you specify NB = 32, then all of the data is distributed across bands.
For the TDDFT calculation, this means that each task will be solving the equations of motion for exactly 1 Kohn-Sham orbital.
However, if you specify NB = 16, then 32 = 2x16 and each task will then have 2 bands (32/16=2) and half of those bands' plane wave coefficients.
For NB = 8, then 32 = 4x8 and each task will then have 4 bands (32/8=4) and one quarter of those bands' plane wave coefficients.
And so on...

Anyhow, here is a more concrete list of things to look at that we can continue to refine over the week as
you get things working and I add features to the TDDFT code.

* Verify that you can run the SCF calculation in parallel for a few different tilings.
See how the cost scales with the number of times you tesselate the primitive cell.
You should also take note that I changed a minor mistake in my original geometry specification 
and now the SCF calculation is converging a bit faster.

* See how the time taken by the SCF calculation varies with # of tasks and NB.
For a given tiling and number of tasks, what is the NB that results in the fastest execution of the SCF calculation?
How about the slowest?
If a calculation fails, check the number of bands and the number of tasks and note that.

* See how the time taken per step in the TDDFT calculation varies with # of tasks and NB.
For a given tiling and number of tasks, what is the NB that results in the fastest execution of the SCF calculation?
How about the slowest?
If a calculation fails, check the number of bands and the number of tasks and note that.

* If you feel like getting into some of the scripting, you can edit generate_graphene_proton_supercell.py 2 2 
so that you can specify the point at which the proton will pass through the graphene sheet.
Presently the default is the center of the supercell, i.e., (1/2, 1/2, 0), where the final 
0 coordinate indicates that the trajectory starts with the proton at the bottom of the cell
relative to the graphene sheet in the middle of the supercell.
